Okay, welcome to the first unit of or first lesson of design. Design is where
we actually
bring our idea to life. So in the previous module, we will have come up with
the idea
that we intend to work on in this module. We're going to actually make it into
reality,
put it into pixels. So I'll go through the core walkthrough of what all the
design module
will look like to start off, and then we'll dive into setting up Figma and
incorporating
some inspiration. Okay. Figma is a design software. Do not try to use Canva if
you are
going to be designing a mobile or web application. It's a terrible idea. You
might use it for
some social media stuff. I don't know your background, but you definitely
should not use it for
consumer apps. Then we're going to go into wireframing. This is actually coming
up with the sort of
general layout of your product. You know, like box here and button here and
that sort of thing.
We have four tabs, settings in the top right corner. Then we're going to go
over hiring
a designer. The reason that we're doing this here and not at the end is once
you listen to the first
two lessons, you'll kind of be ready to hire a designer. But you should almost
certainly
listen to the rest of the lessons. Now that said, some people want to move as
quickly as possible.
The first two lessons will give the core information necessary. At that point,
if you're
trying to move as quickly as possible, you might want to hire a designer while
you complete
the rest of the module. Personally though, I would recommend doing it all at
once.
I also know that a lot of people here aren't going to watch everything all the
way through.
This is one of the major takeaways. There are right ways to do it and wrong
ways to do it.
I want to make sure that you guys do it the right way. Testing out this camera.
Yeah, we're good.
Cool. Okay. Then we'll have a brief assignment. We'll move into unit one. So we
go to unit zero,
then unit one. Unit one contains the actual information you're getting your MVP
complete.
So we step a little bit beyond wire framing and into getting or building a
fully fleshed out MVP.
We have our primary and secondary actions, some basic principles. We move into
onboarding and
paywalls. This is very, very important. And then we have an assignment
designing a bunch of screens.
Next, we have brand aesthetics and design to distribution. We don't have the
assignment
built out yet for this. I'm going to actually do that right after I record this
. I realize I
think I'd just accidentally left out or had left something in. I also think
that Alex is going to
be doing that part. So important notes. You should watch additional tutorials
on design.
This is not meant to make you an amazing designer for the sake of time and
prioritizing the most
important higher order components of app design. I'm going to be teaching you
everything that I
and we at at mafia know. But at the end of the day, the vast majority of people
are not trying to
become 10x designers, right? You need to know how to design well enough to
create a great product
and specifically how to create great UX. It'll take years to get great at UI.
And so that's why
we usually outsource that. All right, on to the lesson itself. So the amount of
theory that we're
going to have in design will be significantly less than ideation. We're going
to be a lot more
hands on. I'm going to show you guys how I work in Figma. Step one, download
figma.com. So you go
to the website, you download super easy. You can work out of the browser
version, but I definitely
recommend working out of the desktop version. Then you should play around,
watch some tutorials online,
and I'll kind of show you guys the the very basics and tutorials can take you
next step further.
And then you're going to want to screenshot other apps or use mobbin.
The idea that we are going to be designing throughout my my lecturing during
this module will be test
max super non creative, very descriptive name. It'll be a product to help guys
improve in their
testosterone and track their progress by uploading personal information. We'll
get into the more
specific details, but essentially think like take a picture of your face, your
body, answer questions
about your habits and get a custom routine from improving your testosterone.
This is a very, very
common problem that young men nowadays are facing, which is low testosterone,
which is extremely,
extremely bad for your quality of life and overall feeling of well being. And a
lot of
a lot of guys on social media are turning to influencers to tell them what to
do,
but through an application, we can develop more more custom protocols with even
higher quality,
more structured information. So I'm sure you can tell it even just based on the
namesake.
It will resemble UMAX to some extent. I didn't want to just do a product that I
've already done
before I easily could have taken a design, you know, you know, just redesign U
MAX or Cali or
Twitter or raise or whatever app ground up. But I want to come up with
something on the spot.
And so you guys will be able to see how I actually think through these problems
in real time. Okay,
enough of that. Let's get into Figma. All right. So here we've got Figma. Once
again,
if you want to learn the very basics, you can you should go watch the tutorial.
But when we're
starting off with app design, you're going to want to click this little hashtag
looking thing in
the bottom corner. And then at the top right, let me actually bring myself down
here. You know
what? For Figma, I should be in the bottom left. Yeah, that'll be good. Okay.
Yeah. Okay. So up
here, you you can press on phone, do iPhone 1314. I took some screenshots of
apps earlier,
we'll downsize. And let's bring it over. So as I mentioned, one of the first
things that I do when
I'm working on a new app is I go and I take screenshots of comparables. So for
the time being, I only
have a few screenshots in here, but I will flesh it out more so over the course
of this module as
we begin to actually design. But this is like the very, very basic step number
one of designing an
app. You have an idea, you find apps that are similar in either functionality,
demographic,
and or aesthetic, or apps that you just like their components, like you just
kind of like how it
looks, right? You don't have to over complicate this. Just grab apps, bring
them in here. The reason
for this is we will be able to use them as as inspiration for the different
components. So for
example, Cal AI, we have this sort of primary action, which is taking a picture
of your food.
Now, similar to Twitter, we want to make this accessible at all times. The
reason that I mentioned
Twitter is Twitter wants you to always be able to post, right? So Twitter has
this nice little
circular plus button in the bottom, right? That is how I actually came up with
the design of this
plus button. When we first launched all that we had was this plus button in the
bottom right.
That was it. We literally had the plus button camera picture of the food and
then your calories
or the food analysis would show up here. Now for Twitter, Twitter is the
primary action is all about
keeping track of your streak. So, Twitter has this sort of streak length listed
here,
as well as the number of days that you've been active. UMAX, it's all about
getting your scan,
getting your phase ratings. Now, we're going to dive much deeper into core and
or primary and secondary actions within apps in the future. But the primary
purpose of this lesson
is to kind of just show you guys, show you guys how we incorporate screenshots
from these other apps
and then use them to inform our process of wireframing or setting up our Figma
file for now,
I should say. So, I'm not going to get too deep into wireframing. We're going
to be doing that in
the next video. But I just want to show you guys some very basic how-tos in Fig
ma. But once again,
you should watch more tutorials online and we can probably provide links of
those
in the description of this video. Okay. So, I pressed so down here in the
bottom left,
I think you can just barely see it. We have the little cursor. This is just our
main sort of
our mouse, our pointer. Then when we press this button, we get the frame
that enables us to add more frames. Then we have this sort of shape button. So,
we're starting off
rectangle. If we hit the drop down, we can do different sort of shapes. Okay.
So, let's show
you how this works. Say that we want to put something right here. I'll create
this rectangle.
And now in the wireframing lesson, next we're going to talk about how this sort
of size and
color and corner radius are less important when you first begin designing your
app.
But what's most important is just kind of putting it in the different places
that you want.
So, for now, let's just kind of like redesign UMAX a little bit.
And then we're going to reshape it for this app in the next lesson.
So, I create this rectangle. Let's say I want to add the corner radius right
now.
I'll press this button here, corner radius, maybe add 20. Right? So, we get
this sort of looking
image. Then we want a button within it, right? So, this is the background image
,
and we want another button in it. So, now I'll change this maybe to be black,
and I'll add a
little corner radius as well. Great. And you can see we get some amount of auto
layout by the
the editor. So, we have the shapes here. If we jump to one over, we've got text
.
I'll add some text, facial analysis.
I'll maybe increase the size of this, maybe just a little bit bigger,
bold it. Now we've got facial analysis right here.
It's very common to have a tab bar at the bottom. So, we can put this little
tab bar in
and add some new little squares to represent icons or buttons.
So, now I'm just copying and pasting this over. I'll select these and center
them.
And there you have it. That quickly, I've got the sort of like the main layout
designed from UMAX.
Once again in the next lesson, we're going to dive deeper into this, but let's
say I want to
add comments. I'll say for my designer, add an image of a generic person right
here.
And then you can add more. You can say, add a scrollable set here. Okay.
If you already know how to use Figma, I'm sure you've skipped the video at this
point. If you
didn't, thanks for staying to watch this a little refresher. If you don't know
how to use Figma,
you're new to it. I would really recommend once again watching tutorials online
and honestly
just spending like 20 minutes, 30 minutes, even like two hours getting familiar
with the software.
It's extremely powerful. I spend so much time in Figma. So, you're going to
want to get good at it.
Cool. That's that's this first lesson of the basic Figma setup, importing these
screenshots
of comparable apps. And in the next lesson, we're going to dive into wirefram
ing itself,
how to properly do it, adding more detailed instructions for your designer,
and how to think through the sort of UX side of things, figuring out when to
copy and paste
components over, and when to come up with stuff on your own. Cool. I'll see you
guys in the next lesson.